[]{#/color var (atom).md}    
## color var (atom) {#color-var-atom byondver="500"}    
**See also:**    
:   [vars (atom)](/atom/var)    
:   [alpha var (atom)](/atom/var/alpha)    
:   [appearance_flags var (atom)](/atom/var/appearance_flags)    
:   [blend_mode var (atom)](/atom/var/blend_mode)    
:   [color var (client)](/client/var/color)    
:   [rgb proc](/proc/rgb)    
:   [MapColors proc (icon)](/icon/proc/MapColors)    
<!-- -->    
**Default value:**    
:   null (white)    
<!-- -->    
**Possible values:**    
:   null (white)    
:   any [color](/%7B%7Bappendix%7D%7D/html-colors) generated by `rgb()`    
    (e.g., `"#00ff00"` for green)    
:   a [color matrix](/%7Bnotes%7D/color-matrix) (in list form)    
Controls the color of the icon displayed on players\' screens. This    
color is multiplied by the icon, so that a white icon will become this    
color. The color multiplier is also applied to `maptext`.    
If you include an alpha component in the color, the atom\'s alpha var    
will be set at the same time.    
Overlays and images will also be multiplied by this color, unless they    
use the `RESET_COLOR` value in `appearance_flags`.    
The color value can be set to a [color    
matrix](/%7Bnotes%7D/color-matrix), which is a list of values. This    
allows for more complex transformations such as adding or subtracting    
color, inverting the color, turning to grayscale, shifting hue, etc.    
Using an RGB-only color matrix will include the existing alpha value in    
the matrix.    
When reading the `color` var, if it is a matrix it will be read out as a    
list with 20 items (full RGBA format). That list is a copy, so if you    
save it and make changes to that list later it will not impact the    
actual color of the atom. This also means you can\'t use    
`color[9] = 0.5`; you would have to grab the value of `color` first,    
make sure it\'s a list, change it, and then assign the changed list back    
to the `color` var.  