## Topic proc (client)

**Format:**
+   Topic(href,href_list\[\],hsrc)
<!-- -->
**When:**
+   Called when a player connects to a world with a \"connection topic\"
    or when the player runs a hyperlink in the current world by clicking
    one embedded in text or generated by the link() instruction.
<!-- -->
**Args:**
+   href: The topic text (everything after the \'?\' in the full href).
+   href_list: List of key/value pairs in href (produced from
    params2list(href)).
+   hsrc: The object referenced by the \"src\" parameter in href or null
    if none.
<!-- -->
**Default action:**
+   Call the hsrc object\'s own Topic() proc.


The following example uses a very simple href value.
### Example:

```
 mob/Login() src \<\< \"Click [here](?source) to download the
source code.\" return ..() client/Topic(href) if(href == \"source\") usr
\<\< file(\"world.dm\") usr \<\< file(\"world.rsc\") else ..()

```
 

Be sure to call the default handler unless you want
to prevent rerouting of topics to other objects.
Always validate the input in `Topic()` calls to make sure it\'s correct
and the query you\'re recieving is legitimate. For security reasons, you
will probably want to control which objects a player has access to,
since a player could spoof a topic link containing any arbitrary object
reference. (Never trust those sneaky players!) 

The next example
demonstrates an href that gets handled by another object. This is how
you would normally want to do things. It is best not to override
client/Topic() (as in the example above) unless you need to intervene in
the low-level details of routing the request to the right object.


You specify the object that will handle the request by using a
parameter called \"src\".
### Example:

```
 mob/Login() src \<\< \"Click
[here](?src=\ref%5Bsrc%5D;action=startgame) to start.\" return ..()
mob/Topic(href,href_list\[\]) switch(href_list\[\"action\"\])
if(\"startgame\") usr \<\< \"Starting game\...\" else return ..()

```
 

Although it is slightly more complex, the use of the
parameter list allows you to easily include extra data and new
functionality. Just remember that the data in the list is always stored
as text, so if you are expecting a number or an object, you must convert
it yourself (with text2num(), locate(), or whatever).

> [!TIP] 
> **See also:**
> +   [New proc (client)](/ref/client/proc/New.md) 
> +   [Topic proc (datum)](/ref/datum/proc/Topic.md) 
> +   [link proc](/ref/proc/link.md) 
> +   [ref text macro](/ref/DM/text/macros/ref.md) <!-- -->